PMID- 40975101
OWN - NLM
STAT- MEDLINE
DCOM- 20250920
LR  - 20250920
IS  - 1474-4465 (Electronic)
IS  - 1474-4422 (Linking)
VI  - 24
IP  - 10
DP  - 2025 Oct
TI  - Diagnosis of multiple sclerosis: 2024 revisions of the McDonald criteria.
PG  - 850-865
LID - S1474-4422(25)00270-4 [pii]
LID - 10.1016/S1474-4422(25)00270-4 [doi]
AB  - Advances in the understanding of multiple sclerosis and the development of 
      biomarkers of pathophysiology prompted a substantial revision of the 2017 
      McDonald diagnostic criteria. The new 2024 McDonald criteria provide a unified 
      approach for diagnosing multiple sclerosis in individuals with relapsing or 
      progressive courses throughout the lifespan (ie, from paediatric to late-life 
      presentations). The optic nerve can now serve as a fifth anatomical location 
      within the CNS for diagnosis. The central vein sign, paramagnetic rim lesions, 
      and kappa free-light chain concentrations in CSF can be used, when available, to 
      provide supportive evidence and confer specificity for a diagnosis of multiple 
      sclerosis in specific situations. In certain cases, radiologically isolated 
      syndrome or neurological symptoms that do not constitute a clear attack or 
      progression of disability can fulfil the criteria for a multiple sclerosis 
      diagnosis. We also provide guidance for the diagnosis of multiple sclerosis in 
      older individuals (≥50 years) and those with comorbidities. The 2024 revised 
      criteria should expedite the diagnosis of multiple sclerosis, while maintaining 
      specificity.
CI  - Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved, including those for text and 
      data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.
FAU - Montalban, Xavier
AU  - Montalban X
AD  - Multiple Sclerosis Centre of Catalonia and Department of Neurology, Hospital 
      Universitari Vall d'Hebron, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain; 
      Universitat de Vic Central de Catalunya, Barcelona, Spain. Electronic address: 
      xavier.montalban@cem-cat.org.
FAU - Lebrun-Frénay, Christine
AU  - Lebrun-Frénay C
AD  - Université Nice Cote d'Azur UMR2CA-URRIS; Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de 
      Nice, Nice, France.
FAU - Oh, Jiwon
AU  - Oh J
AD  - Division of Neurology, Department of Medicine, St. Michael's Hospital, University 
      of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
FAU - Arrambide, Georgina
AU  - Arrambide G
AD  - Multiple Sclerosis Centre of Catalonia and Department of Neurology, Hospital 
      Universitari Vall d'Hebron, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
FAU - Moccia, Marcello
AU  - Moccia M
AD  - Department of Molecular Medicine and Medical Biotechnology, Federico II 
      University of Naples, Naples, Italy; Queen Square Multiple Sclerosis Centre, 
      Department of Neuroinflammation, UCL Queen Square Institute of Neurology, Faculty 
      of Brain Sciences, University College London, London, UK.
FAU - Pia Amato, Maria
AU  - Pia Amato M
AD  - Department NEUROFARBA, University of Florence; IRCCS Fondazione Don Carlo 
      Gnocchi, Florence, Italy.
FAU - Amezcua, Lilyana
AU  - Amezcua L
AD  - Department of Neurology, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
FAU - Banwell, Brenda
AU  - Banwell B
AD  - Department of Pediatrics, Johns Hopkins University, Johns Hopkins University 
      School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
FAU - Bar-Or, Amit
AU  - Bar-Or A
AD  - The Center for Neuroinflammation and Experimental Therapeutics and the Department 
      of Neurology, Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, 
      Philadelphia, PA, USA.
FAU - Barkhof, Frederik
AU  - Barkhof F
AD  - Queen Square Multiple Sclerosis Centre, Department of Neuroinflammation, UCL 
      Queen Square Institute of Neurology, Faculty of Brain Sciences, University 
      College London, London, UK; Centre for Medical Image Computing, University 
      College London, London, UK; Department of Radiology & Nuclear Medicine, Amsterdam 
      UMC, Vrije Universiteit, Amsterdam, Netherlands.
FAU - Butzkueven, Helmut
AU  - Butzkueven H
AD  - Department of Neuroscience, School for Translational Medicine, Monash University 
      and Alfred Health, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
FAU - Ciccarelli, Olga
AU  - Ciccarelli O
AD  - Queen Square Multiple Sclerosis Centre, Department of Neuroinflammation, UCL 
      Queen Square Institute of Neurology, Faculty of Brain Sciences, University 
      College London, London, UK; National Institute for Health and Care Research 
      (NIHR) University College London Hospitals (UCLH) Biomedical Research Centre, 
      London, UK.
FAU - Chataway, Jeremy
AU  - Chataway J
AD  - Queen Square Multiple Sclerosis Centre, Department of Neuroinflammation, UCL 
      Queen Square Institute of Neurology, Faculty of Brain Sciences, University 
      College London, London, UK; National Institute for Health and Care Research 
      (NIHR) University College London Hospitals (UCLH) Biomedical Research Centre, 
      London, UK.
FAU - Cohen, Jeffrey A
AU  - Cohen JA
AD  - Department of Neurology, Mellen Center for Multiple Sclerosis Treatment and 
      Research, Neurological Institute, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH, USA.
FAU - Comi, Giancarlo
AU  - Comi G
AD  - Vita-Salute San Raffaele University, Milan, Italy.
FAU - Correale, Jorge
AU  - Correale J
AD  - Department of Neurology, Raúl Carrea Institute for Neurological Research (FLENI), 
      Buenos Aires, Argentina.
FAU - Deisenhammer, Florian
AU  - Deisenhammer F
AD  - Department of Neurology, Innsbruck Medical University, Innsbruck, Austria.
FAU - Filippi, Massimo
AU  - Filippi M
AD  - Vita-Salute San Raffaele University, Milan, Italy; Neurology Unit, 
      Neurorehabilitation Unit, and Neurophysiology Service, and Neuroimaging Research 
      Unit, Division of Neuroscience, IRCCS San Raffaele Scientific Institute, Milan, 
      Italy.
FAU - Fiol, Julie
AU  - Fiol J
AD  - National Multiple Sclerosis Society, New York, NY, USA.
FAU - Freedman, Mark S
AU  - Freedman MS
AD  - University of Ottawa, Department of Medicine and the Ottawa Hospital Research 
      Institute, Ottawa, ON, Canada.
FAU - Fujihara, Kazuo
AU  - Fujihara K
AD  - Department of Multiple Sclerosis Therapeutics, Fukushima Medical University 
      School of Medicine, Fukushima, Japan; Multiple Sclerosis & Neuromyelitis Optica 
      Center, Southern TOHOKU Research Institute for Neuroscience, Koriyama, Japan.
FAU - Granziera, Cristina
AU  - Granziera C
AD  - Translational Imaging in Neurology (ThINK) Basel, Department of Biomedical 
      Engineering, Faculty of Medicine, University Hospital Basel and University of 
      Basel, Basel, Switzerland; Department of Neurology, University Hospital Basel and 
      University of Basel, Basel, Switzerland; Research Center for Clinical 
      Neuroimmunology and Neuroscience Basel, University Hospital Basel and University 
      of Basel, Basel, Switzerland.
FAU - Green, Ari J
AU  - Green AJ
AD  - Department of Neurology, University of California San Francisco, San Francisco, 
      CA, USA.
FAU - Hartung, Hans-Peter
AU  - Hartung HP
AD  - Department of Neurology, Medical Faculty, Heinrich-Heine-University Düsseldorf, 
      Düsseldorf, Germany; Brain and Mind Center, Sydney Medical School, Faculty of 
      Medicine and Health, University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia; Department of 
      Neurology, Palacky University in Olomouc, Olomouc, Czech Republic.
FAU - Hellwig, Kerstin
AU  - Hellwig K
AD  - Department of Neurology, St. Josef Hospital, Ruhr University, Bochum, Germany.
FAU - Kappos, Ludwig
AU  - Kappos L
AD  - Translational Imaging in Neurology (ThINK) Basel, Department of Biomedical 
      Engineering, Faculty of Medicine, University Hospital Basel and University of 
      Basel, Basel, Switzerland; Department of Neurology, University Hospital Basel and 
      University of Basel, Basel, Switzerland; Research Center for Clinical 
      Neuroimmunology and Neuroscience Basel, University Hospital Basel and University 
      of Basel, Basel, Switzerland.
FAU - Kimbrough, Dorlan
AU  - Kimbrough D
AD  - Department of Neurology, Duke University, Durham, NC, USA.
FAU - Killestein, Joep
AU  - Killestein J
AD  - Department of Neurology, MS Center Amsterdam, Amsterdam UMC, Vrije Universiteit, 
      Amsterdam, Netherlands.
FAU - Lublin, Fred
AU  - Lublin F
AD  - Department of Neurology, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, 
      USA.
FAU - Marignier, Romain
AU  - Marignier R
AD  - Service de Neurologie, Sclérose en Plaques, Pathologies de la Myéline et 
      Neuroinflammation and Centre de Référence des Maladies Inflammatoires Rares du 
      Cerveau et de la Moelle (MIRCEM), Hôpital Neurologique Pierre Wertheimer, 
      Hospices Civils de Lyon, Bron, France.
FAU - Ann Marrie, Ruth
AU  - Ann Marrie R
AD  - Departments of Medicine and Community Health and Epidemiology, Faculty of 
      Medicine, Dalhousie University, and Nova Scotia Health, Halifax, NS, Canada.
FAU - Miller, Aaron
AU  - Miller A
AD  - Department of Neurology, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, 
      USA.
FAU - Otero-Romero, Susana
AU  - Otero-Romero S
AD  - Multiple Sclerosis Centre of Catalonia and Department of Neurology, Hospital 
      Universitari Vall d'Hebron, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
FAU - Ontaneda, Daniel
AU  - Ontaneda D
AD  - Department of Neurology, Mellen Center for Multiple Sclerosis Treatment and 
      Research, Neurological Institute, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH, USA.
FAU - Ramanathan, Sudarshini
AU  - Ramanathan S
AD  - Translational Neuroimmunology Group, Sydney Medical School, Faculty of Medicine 
      and Health, University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia; Department of Neurology 
      and Concord Clinical School, Concord Hospital, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
FAU - Reich, Daniel
AU  - Reich D
AD  - Translational Neuroradiology Section, National Institute of Neurological 
      Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA.
FAU - Rocca, Maria A
AU  - Rocca MA
AD  - Vita-Salute San Raffaele University, Milan, Italy.
FAU - Rovira, Àlex
AU  - Rovira À
AD  - Section of Neuroradiology, Department of Radiology, Hospital Universitari Vall 
      d'Hebron, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
FAU - Saidha, Shiv
AU  - Saidha S
AD  - Department of Neurology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, 
      MD, USA.
FAU - Salter, Amber
AU  - Salter A
AD  - Department of Neurology, Section on Statistical Planning and Analysis, University 
      of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, TX, USA.
FAU - Sastre-Garriga, Jaume
AU  - Sastre-Garriga J
AD  - Multiple Sclerosis Centre of Catalonia and Department of Neurology, Hospital 
      Universitari Vall d'Hebron, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
FAU - Saylor, Deanna
AU  - Saylor D
AD  - Department of Neurology, University of North Carolina School of Medicine, Chapel 
      Hill, NC, USA; University Teaching Hospital, Lusaka, Zambia.
FAU - Solomon, Andrew J
AU  - Solomon AJ
AD  - Department of Neurological Sciences, Larner College of Medicine at the University 
      of Vermont, Burlington, VT, USA.
FAU - Sormani, Maria Pia
AU  - Sormani MP
AD  - Department of Health Sciences (DISSAL), Biostatistics Unit, University of Genoa, 
      Genoa, Italy.
FAU - Stankoff, Bruno
AU  - Stankoff B
AD  - Sorbonne University, Paris Brain Institute, Neurology Department, Pitié 
      Salpetriere Hospital, APHP, Paris, France.
FAU - Tintore, Mar
AU  - Tintore M
AD  - Multiple Sclerosis Centre of Catalonia and Department of Neurology, Hospital 
      Universitari Vall d'Hebron, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
FAU - Tremlett, Helen
AU  - Tremlett H
AD  - Faculty of Medicine (Neurology), University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, 
      Canada.
FAU - Van der Walt, Anneke
AU  - Van der Walt A
AD  - Department of Neuroscience, School for Translational Medicine, Monash University 
      and Alfred Health, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
FAU - Viswanathan, Shanthi
AU  - Viswanathan S
AD  - Department of Neurology, Kuala Lumpur Hospital, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
FAU - Wiendl, Heinz
AU  - Wiendl H
AD  - Department of Neurology, University Hospital Heidelberg, Heidelberg, Germany.
FAU - Wildemann, Brigitte
AU  - Wildemann B
AD  - Department of Neurology and Neurophysiology, University Freiburg, Freiburg, 
      Germany.
FAU - Yamout, Bassem
AU  - Yamout B
AD  - Harley Street Medical Center, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates.
FAU - Zaratin, Paola
AU  - Zaratin P
AD  - Italian MS Society and Foundation, Genoa, Italy.
FAU - Calabresi, Peter A
AU  - Calabresi PA
AD  - Department of Neurology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, 
      MD, USA.
FAU - Coetzee, Timothy
AU  - Coetzee T
AD  - National Multiple Sclerosis Society, New York, NY, USA.
FAU - Thompson, Alan J
AU  - Thompson AJ
AD  - Queen Square Multiple Sclerosis Centre, Department of Neuroinflammation, UCL 
      Queen Square Institute of Neurology, Faculty of Brain Sciences, University 
      College London, London, UK.
LA  - eng
PT  - Journal Article
PT  - Review
PL  - England
TA  - Lancet Neurol
JT  - The Lancet. Neurology
JID - 101139309
SB  - IM
MH  - Humans
MH  - *Multiple Sclerosis/diagnosis/cerebrospinal fluid
MH  - Magnetic Resonance Imaging
COIS- Declaration of interests GA received compensation for consulting services, 
      speaking honoraria, or participation in advisory boards from Roche, Horizon 
      Therapeutics, and Bristol Myers Squibb; travel support for scientific meetings 
      from Novartis, Roche, ECTRIMS and EAN; GA serves as Editor for Europe of the 
      Multiple Sclerosis Journal – Experimental, Translational and Clinical; is a 
      member of the editorial and scientific committee for Acta Neurológica Colombiana; 
      is a member of the International Women in Multiple Sclerosis (iWiMS) network 
      executive committee, the European Biomarkers in Multiple Sclerosis (BioMS-eu) 
      steering committee, the MOGAD Eugene Devic European Network (MEDEN) steering 
      group, and the Platform Adaptive Trial for remyelination and neuroprotection in 
      multiple Sclerosis (PLATYPUS) steering committee. MPA received research grants 
      from the National MS Society, Canadian MS Society, Italian Health Ministry, 
      Regione Toscana, Bayer, Biogen, Merck, Novartis, Sanofi Genzyme, Teva, Almirall, 
      Roche; honoraria as a speaker and member of advisory boards for Bayer, Biogen, 
      Merck, Novartis, Sanofi Genzyme, Teva, Almirall, Roche, Celgene Bristol Myers 
      Squibb, and Sandoz; and is member of the editorial board for Multiple Sclerosis. 
      LA received research support from the National Institutes of Health (NIH) 
      National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) and Bristol Myer 
      Squibb Foundation; is a local Principal Investigator for commercial trials funded 
      by Genentech and Sanofi Genzyme; and received consulting fees from TGI 
      Therapeutics, Novartis, Genentech, and EMD Serono. FB is supported by European 
      Commission, Medical Research Council, National Institute for Health and Care 
      Research (NIHR) Biomedical Research Centre at University College London Hospitals 
      (UCLH), GE Healthcare, Roche, and ADDI (paid to institution); is a consultant for 
      Combinostics, IXICO, and Roche; and participates in steering committees or data 
      safety monitoring boards for EISAI, Biogen, Prothena, and Merck. AB-O received 
      consulting fees or advisory board participation fees from Abata, Autolus, Biogen, 
      Cabaletta, Capstan, GlaxoSmithKline, Immunic, Merck EMD Serono, Moderna, 
      Novartis, Roche Genentech, Sana, Sangamo, Sanofi Genzyme, and Viracta; and grant 
      support to the University of Pennsylvania from Merck EMD Serono, Roche Genentech, 
      Biogen Idec, and Novartis. BB served as a consultant to Novartis, Sanofi, Teva 
      Neuroscience, and Biogen in the design of clinical trials for paediatric multiple 
      sclerosis; has served as a central imaging Reviewer for clinical trials by 
      Novartis and Roche; and received grant funding from the NIH, National Multiple 
      Sclerosis Society, and Multiple Sclerosis Canada. PAC received grants from the 
      NIH, National Multiple Sclerosis Society, Department of Defence, Genentech, and 
      the Myelin Repair Foundation; and consulting honoraria for serving on safety 
      advisory boards for Novartis, Idorsia, and Lilly. HB received research grants and 
      contracts from Roche, Novartis, Biogen, UCB, Merck, National Health and Medical 
      Research Council (NHMRC) Australia, Trish Foundation, MS Australia, Pennycook 
      Foundation, and Alfred Health (to institution); honoraria for consulting and 
      speaking from Roche, Novartis, UCB, Merck, and Neuorphan; travel support from 
      Merck and Novartis; and personal compensation from the MSBase Foundation. JCh 
      received support from the Health Technology Assessment (HTA) Programme NIHR, the 
      UK MS Society, the US National MS Society, and the Rosetrees Trust; is supported 
      in part by the NIHR UCLH Biomedical Research Centre; has been a local Principal 
      Investigator for a trial in multiple sclerosis funded by MS Canada; is a local 
      Principal Investigator for commercial trials funded by Ionis and Roche; and has 
      taken part in advisory boards or consultancy for Biogen, Contineum Therapeutics, 
      FSD Pharma, InnoCare, Pheno Therapeutics, and Roche. OC holds a NIHR Research 
      Professorship (RP-2017-08-ST2-004); received grants from the NIHR, UK MS Society, 
      Medical Research Council, Rosetrees Trust; and received personal compensation for 
      consulting or speaking from Novartis, Merck, Roche, Biogen, and Lundbeck. TC is 
      an employee of the National Multiple Sclerosis USA, a sponsor of the 
      International Committee on Clinical Trials in multiple sclerosis. JAC received 
      personal compensation for consulting for Astoria, Bristol Myers Squibb, Convelo, 
      and Viatris; and is a chair for a data safety and monitoring board DSMB for 
      Celltrion. JCo received economic compensation for academic presentations, 
      participation in advisory councils, and assistance to attend congresses from 
      Biogen, Merck, Novartis, Roche, Bayer, Sanofi Genzyme, Gador, Raffo, Bristol 
      Myers Squibb, and Janssen. FD has participated in meetings sponsored by or 
      received honoraria for acting as an advisor or speaker for Alexion, Almirall, 
      Biogen, Bristol Myers Squibb, Sanofi, Horizon, Janssen, Laurea Group, Medwhizz, 
      Merck, Novartis Pharma, Neuraxpharm, Roche, Sandoz, and Teva; received research 
      grants from Biogen, Novartis Pharma, and Sanofi (to institution); and is Section 
      Editor of Multiple Sclerosis and Related Disorders and Review Editor for 
      Frontiers Neurology. MF received compensation for consulting services from 
      Alexion, Almirall, Biogen, Merck, Novartis, Roche, and Sanofi; speaker fees from 
      Bayer, Biogen, Celgene, Chiesi Italia SpA, Eli Lilly, Genzyme, Janssen, Merck 
      Serono, Neopharmed Gentili, Novartis, Novo Nordisk, Roche, Sanofi, Takeda, and 
      TEVA; participated in advisory boards for Alexion, Biogen, Bristol Myers Squibb, 
      Merck, Novartis, Roche, Sanofi, Sanofi Aventis, Sanofi Genzyme, and Takeda; fees 
      for scientific direction of educational events for Biogen, Merck, Roche, Celgene, 
      Bristol Myers Squibb, Lilly, Novartis, and Sanofi Genzyme; and research support 
      from Biogen Idec, Merck Serono, Novartis, Roche, the Italian Ministry of Health, 
      the Italian Ministry of University and Research, and Fondazione Italiana Sclerosi 
      Multipla. JF is an employee of the National Multiple Sclerosis USA, a sponsor of 
      the International Committee on Clinical Trials in multiple sclerosis. MSF 
      received research support from Sanofi Genzyme Canada; speaking fees from 
      Hoffman-La Roche, Novartis, and EMD; honoraria and consulting fees from Amgen, 
      AstraZeneca, EMD, EMD Serono, Merck Serono, Find Therapeutics, Hoffman La-Roche, 
      Novartis, Sandoz, Sanofi Genzyme, Sentrex, and TEVA Canada Innovation; 
      compensation for service on advisory boards and corporate boards for Amgen, 
      AstraZeneca, Autolus, Bayer Healthcare, Celestra Health, EMD, Merck Serono, Find 
      Therapeutics, Hoffman-La Roche, Neurogenesis, Novartis, Sanofi Genzyme, Sentrex, 
      and Setpoint Medical; and compensation for serving on data safety monitoring 
      boards for Abata Therapeutics, Celltrion, Hoffman-La Roche, and Moderna. DK 
      served as a consultant for CVS Health; received research support from the UK MS 
      Society, National Multiple Sclerosis Society, BMA Foundation, Horne Family 
      Charitable Foundation, Biogen, and Merck; and received honoraria for advisory 
      boards and educational activities from Biogen, Novartis, Sandoz, Roche, Janssen, 
      and Merck. KF received grants from the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, 
      Science and Technology of Japan and Ministry of Health, Welfare and Labor of 
      Japan; personal compensation for consulting from Merck Biopharma, Japan Tobacco, 
      and AbbVie; payment or honoraria for lectures and presentations from Biogen, 
      Eisai, Mitsubishi Tanabe, Novartis, Chugai Roche, Alexion, VielaBio Horizon 
      Therapeutics, Teijin, Asahi Kasei Medical, Merck, and Takeda; participated on an 
      advisory board for Biogen, Mitsubishi Tanabe, Novartis, Chugai Roche, Alexion, 
      VielaBio Horizon Therapeutics, and UCB; serves as the immediate past President of 
      the Pan-Asian Committee for Treatment and Research in Multiple Sclerosis 
      (unpaid); is the immediate past President of the Japanese Society of 
      Neuroimmunology (unpaid); is a board member of the Japan Multiple Sclerosis 
      Society (unpaid); is a board member of the European Charcot Foundation (unpaid); 
      and is a member of the International Medical and Scientific Board (MSIF; unpaid). 
      CG is supported by the Swiss National Science Foundation and the Stiftung zur 
      Förderung der gastroenterologischen und allgemeinen klinischen Forschung; 
      received the fees that were used exclusively for research support from Siemens, 
      GeNeuro, Genzyme Sanofi, Biogen, Novartis, and Hoffman-La Roche (to institution); 
      advisory board and consultancy fees from Actelion, Genzyme Sanofi, Novartis, 
      GeNeuro, Merck, Biogen, and Hoffman-La Roche (to institution); and speaker fees 
      from Genzyme Sanofi, Novartis, GeNeuro, Merck, Biogen, and Hoffmann-La Roche (to 
      institution). AJG receiveds grants from the Conrad N Hilton Foundation and the 
      Tom Sherak MS Hope Foundation; other financial relationships for activities as 
      expert witness, Associate Editor, advisory board or steering committee 
      participation, and endpoint adjudication from Bionure, Inception Sciences, JAMA 
      Neurology, MedImmune Viela Bio, Mylan, Synthon, and Trims Pharma; and personal 
      fees from Pipeline Therapeutics. H-PH received honoraria for serving on a 
      steering committee from Sanofi, TG Therapeutics, and Hoffmann-La Roche; served on 
      data monitoring committees for Boehringer Ingelheim, Merck, and Novartis; and 
      received consulting fees from Neuraxpharm and Aurinia Pharma. KH received speaker 
      honoraria and research support from Bayer, Biogen, Bristol Myers Squibb, Merck, 
      Novartis, Sanofi Genzyme, Roche, Viatris, and TEVA; support for congress 
      participation from Merck, Roche, Sanofi Genzyme, and Novartis; and has served on 
      scientific advisory boards for Sanofi Genzyme, TEVA, Roche, Novartis, and Merck. 
      LK received research support, including steering committee, advisory board, and 
      consultancy fees from Actelion, Bayer, Biogen, Bristol Myers Squibb, 
      GlaxoSmithKline, Janssen Johnson & Johnson, Japan Tobacco, Merck, Novartis, 
      Roche, Sanofi, Santhera, Shionogi, and TG Therapeutics (to institution); speaker 
      fees from Bayer, Biogen, Merck, Novartis, Roche, and Sanofi; support of 
      educational activities from Allergan, Bayer, Biogen, CSL Behring, Desitin, Merck, 
      Novartis, Pfizer, Roche, Sanofi, Shire, and TEVA; license fees for Neurostatus 
      platform access; and grants from Bayer, Biogen, the EU, InnoSwiss, Merck, 
      Novartis, Roche, Swiss Multiple Sclerosis Society, and the Swiss National 
      Research Foundation. JK received research grants for multicentre 
      investigator-initiated trials DOT-MS (NCT04260711, ZonMW), Supernext 
      (NCT04225312, Treatmeds) and BLOOMS (NCT05296161, ZonMW and Treatmeds); 
      consulting fees from Hoffmann-La Roche, Biogen, TEVA, Merck, Novartis, Sandoz, 
      and Sanofi Genzyme (to institution); reports speaker relationships with 
      Hoffmann-La Roche, Biogen, Immunic, TEVA, Merck, Novartis, and Sanofi Genzyme (to 
      institution); and is on the adjudication committee of multiple sclerosis clinical 
      trials of Immunic (to institution). CL-F received travel support from the 
      European Committee for Treatment and Research in Multiple Sclerosis (ECTRIMS). FL 
      received research funding from Novartis, Biogen, Sanofi, National Multiple 
      Sclerosis Society (NMSS), NIH, and Brainstorm Cell Therapeutics; consulting, 
      advisory board, and data safety monitoring board fees from EMD Serono, Novartis, 
      Sanofi Genzyme, Roche Genentech, Horizon Therapeutics Amgen, Bristol Myers 
      Squibb, Brainstorm Cell Therapeutics, Mylan Viatris, Immunic, Avotres, LabCorp, 
      Neuralight, SetPoint Medical, Hexal Sandoz, Baim Institute, Sudo Biosciences, 
      Lapix Therapeutics, Biohaven Pharmaceuticals, Abata Therapeutics, Cognito 
      Therapeutics, ImmPACT Bio, InnoCare Pharma, and Appia Bio; holds stock in 
      Avotres, Neuralight, and Lapix Therapeutics; and received speaker fees from 
      Sanofi. XM received compensation for lecture honoraria and travel expenses, 
      participation in scientific meetings, clinical trial steering committee 
      membership, or clinical advisory board participation from AbbVie, Actelion, 
      Alexion, Bial PD, Biogen, Bristol Myers Squibb Celgene, EMD Serono, Genzyme, 
      Hoffmann-La Roche, Immunic Therapeutics, Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Medday, Merck, 
      Mylan, Nervgen, Neuraxpharm, Novartis, Peervoice, Samsung Biosys, Sandoz, Sanofi 
      Genzyme, TEVA, TG Therapeutics, Excemed, Medscape, ECTRIMS, MSIF, and NMSS or any 
      of their affiliates (to institution). JO holds the Waugh Family Chair in multiple 
      sclerosis Research at St. Michael's Hospital, University of Toronto and received 
      grant funding from MS Canada, Brain Canada, the National MS Society, Biogen-Idec, 
      Roche, and EMD Serono; received personal compensation for consulting or speaker 
      fees from Biogen Idec, Bristol Myers Squibb, EMD Serono, Eli Lilly, Horizon 
      Therapeutics, Novartis, Roche, and Sanofi Genzyme. SO-R received compensation for 
      consulting services, speaking honoraria, and travel expenses for participation in 
      scientific meetings from Genzyme, Biogen, Novartis, Roche, Excemed, Merck, 
      Moderna GlaxoSmithKline, Pfizer, and AstraZeneca; and research support from 
      Novartis and GlaxoSmithKline. RAM received research funding from the Canadian 
      Institutes of Health Research, MS Canada, Crohn's and Colitis Canada, National 
      Multiple Sclerosis Society, Consortium of Multiple Sclerosis Centers, the 
      Arthritis Society, Public Health Agency of Canada, Pfizer Foundation, Brain 
      Canada, and the US Department of Defense; is a co-investigator on studies 
      receiving funding from Biogen Idec and Roche Canada; and holds the Multiple 
      Sclerosis Clinical Research Chair at Dalhousie University. RM serves on 
      scientific advisory boards for Amgen Horizon Therapeutics, UCB, and Roche; and 
      received funding for travel and fees from Amgen, Alexion, Biogen, Roche, and UCB. 
      MM received financial support from the MUR PNRR Extended Partnership (MNESYS no. 
      PE00000006 and DHEAL-COM no. PNC-E3-2022-23683267); research grants from 
      ECTRIMS-European Magnetic Resonance Imaging in MS network (MAGNIMS), the UK MS 
      Society, and Merck; salary as an Assistant Editor for Neurology and as social 
      media Editor for Multiple Sclerosis; and honoraria from AbbVie, Biogen, Bristol 
      Myers Squibb Celgene, Ipsen, Janssen, Merck, Novartis, Roche, and Sanofi Genzyme. 
      AM received research support from Genzyme Sanofi; consulting fees from CVS 
      Health, Biogen Idec, Corevitas, Mapi Pharma, Verana Health, and Viatris (Mylan); 
      speaker fees from Biogen Idec, Alexion, and Amgen Horizon Therapeutics (all 
      unbranded disease awareness programmes only). DR is supported by the Intramural 
      Research Program of the NINDS NIH; and received research support from Abata 
      Therapeutics and Sanofi. MAR received consulting fees from Biogen, Bristol Myers 
      Squibb, Eli Lilly, Janssen, and Roche; speaker honoraria from AstraZeneca, 
      Biogen, Bristol Myers Squibb, Bromatech, Celgene, Genzyme, Horizon Therapeutics 
      Italy, Merck Serono, Novartis, Roche, Sanofi, and TEVA; research support from the 
      MS Society of Canada, the Italian Ministry of Health, the Italian Ministry of 
      University and Research, and Fondazione Italiana Sclerosi Multipla. DO received 
      research support from the NIH, NMSS, Patient Centered Outcomes Research 
      Institute, Race to Erase MS Foundation, Genentech, Genzyme, Bristol Myers Squibb, 
      and Novartis; and consulting fees from Bristol Myers Squibb, Genentech Roche, 
      Novartis, and Contineum Therapeutics. SR received research funding from the NHMRC 
      Australia, the Petre Foundation, the Brain Foundation, the Royal Australasian 
      College of Physicians, and the University of Sydney; is supported by an NHMRC 
      investigator grant (GNT2008339); serves as a consultant on an advisory board for 
      UCB and Limbic Neurology; and has been an invited speaker for educational or 
      research sessions coordinated by Biogen, Alexion, UCB, Novartis, Excemed, and 
      Limbic Neurology. ÀR serves or served on scientific advisory boards for Novartis, 
      Sanofi, Synthetic MR, Roche, and Biogen; received speaker honoraria from Bayer, 
      Sanofi Genzyme, Merck Serono, TEVA, Novartis, Roche, Bristol Myers Squibb, and 
      Biogen; is Chief Medical Officer and co-founder of TensorMedical; and receives 
      research support from Fondo de Investigación en Salud (PI19/00950 and PI22/01589) 
      from Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Spain. SS received consulting fees from 
      Medical Logix for the development of continuing medical education programmes in 
      neurology; has served on scientific advisory boards for Biogen, Novartis, 
      Genentech, Clene Pharmaceuticals, Horizon therapeutics, and ReWind therapeutics; 
      received consulting fees from Novartis, Genentech, JuneBrain, Innocare, Kiniksa, 
      Lapix Therapeutics, and Setpoint Medical; is the Principal Investigator of 
      investigator-initiated studies funded by Genentech, Biogen, and Novartis; was the 
      site investigator of trials sponsored by MedDay Pharmaceuticals and Clene 
      Pharmaceuticals; and is the site investigator of trials sponsored by Novartis and 
      Lapix Therapeutics. AS received research funding from the Department of Defense 
      Congressionally Directed Medical Research Program, Multiple Sclerosis Society of 
      Canada, NMSS, Consortium of MS Centers; is a member of the editorial board for 
      Neurology; serves as a consultant for Gryphon Bio, Sora Neuroscience, and Abata 
      Therapeutics; has equity in Owl Therapeutics; is a member of the data and safety 
      monitoring board for Central Vein Sign: A Diagnostic Biomarker in Multiple 
      Sclerosis, P3 EQUATE Health Equity Research Network, a phase 3, randomised 
      controlled trial of video telehealth rehabilitation to reduce hospital 
      readmission in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (Tele-COPD), and 
      Methotrexate treatment of Arthritis caused by Chikungunya virus (MARCH) trials; 
      and holds the Kenney Marie Dixon–Pickens Distinguished Professorship in Multiple 
      Sclerosis Research. JS-G received compensation for consulting services and 
      speaking honoraria from Bristol Myers Squibb, Sanofi, Merck, and Roche; is the 
      Scientific Director of Revista de Neurología; is a member of the editorial 
      committee of Multiple Sclerosis and received honorarium; and has received 
      research support from Fondo de Investigación en Salud (PI19/00950 and PI22/00750) 
      from Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Spain. DS received a pilot research grant 
      from the NMSS (to institution); personal honoraria for lecturing from Roche; 
      travel support from Roche; and is a committee member and Chair of the Multiple 
      Sclerosis International Federation (unpaid). AJS received consulting fees from 
      Octave Bioscience, Kiniksa, and TG Therapeutics; served on advisory boards for TG 
      Therapeutics, Horizon Therapeutics, Genentech Roche, and Bristol Meyers Squibb; 
      provided non-promotional speaking for EMD Serono; is a site Principal 
      Investigator for contract research for Sanofi, Actelion, Genentech Roche, and 
      Novartis; and received research funding from Bristol Myers Squibb. MPS received 
      personal compensation for consulting services and for speaking activities from 
      Merck, Novartis, Roche, Sanofi, Bristol Myers Squibb, Immunic, and Biogen. BS 
      received compensation for lectures from Novartis, Roche, Biogen, Alexion, Merck, 
      and Sanofi; research grant supports from Roche, Merck, and Novartis (to 
      institution); and research funding from the Programme Hospitalier de Recherche 
      Clinique from the French health ministry; and grants from the Big Brain Theory 
      grant from Paris Brain Institute, France SEP-ARSEP, and Fondation pour la 
      recherche médicale. MT received compensation for consulting services, speaking 
      honoraria, and research support from Almirall, Bayer Schering Pharma, Biogen 
      Idec, Genzyme, Immunic, Janssen, Merck Serono, Novartis, Roche, Sanofi Aventis, 
      Viela Bio, and TEVA; and served on data safety monitoring boards for Parexel, 
      UCB, and the Relapse Adjudication Committee for IMCYSE SA. HT received research 
      support from the Canada Research Chair Program, the National Multiple Sclerosis 
      Society, the CIHR, MS Canada, the Multiple Sclerosis Scientific Research 
      Foundation, and the Fondation EDMUS contre la sclérose en plaques; served as an 
      advisor for Canada's Drug Agency (2024–25, payment declined); is a clinical 
      expert for the Scientific Advice Program; received travel expenses or 
      registration fees to present at continuing medical eduation conferences or to 
      attend meetings (as a member of the International Advisory Committee on Clinical 
      Trials in Multiple Sclerosis) from the Consortium of MS Centres, the Canadian 
      Neurological Sciences Federation, National MS Society, ECTRIMS ACTRIMS, and the 
      American Academy of Neurology; and speaker honoraria are either declined or 
      donated to an multiple sclerosis charity or to an unrestricted grant for use by 
      HT's research group. AVdW served on advisory boards and received travel honoraria 
      and unrestricted research grants from Novartis, Merck, and Roche; serves as the 
      Chief Operating Officer of the non-profit MSBase Foundation (to self); and 
      received research support from NHMRC Australia and MS Research Australia. SV is 
      currently involved in industry sponsored trials with Novartis, and Sanofi; and 
      has completed a trial with Alexion. HW received honoraria for acting as a member 
      of scientific advisory boards from Alexion, Argenx, Biocryst, Bristol Myers 
      Squibb, Cellerys, Galapagos, Janssen, Merck, Novartis, Sandoz Hexal, and uniQure; 
      speaker honoraria and travel support from Alexion, AOCN, AstraZeneca, Biogen, BGP 
      Products Operations GmbH, Bristol Myers Squibb, CEMCAT, EPG Health Medthority, 
      Genzyme, Kohlhammer, Merck, MS at the Limits, Neurodiem, NMSS, Novartis, Ology, 
      Roche, Sanofi, Springer, Streamed up, TEVA, Uvet, and WebMD Global; is a paid 
      consultant for Alexion, Argenx, Argobio, Bristol Myers Squibb, Dianthus, EMD 
      Serono, Fondazione Cariplo, Idorsia, Immunic, Immunovant, INmune Bio_Syneos 
      Health, Janssen, LTS, Lundbeck, Merck, Muna Therapeutics, Myrobalan Therapeutics, 
      Novartis, PSL Group, Red Nucleus, Roche, Samsung, Sangamo, Sanofi, Swiss Multiple 
      Sclerosis Society, Teladochealth, Toleranzia, UCB, and Viatris; and received 
      research funding from Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft, Deutsche Myasthenie 
      Gesellschaft, the EU, Alexion, Amicus Therapeutics, Argenx, Biogen, CSL Behring, 
      Hoffmann-La Roche, Genzyme, Merck, Novartis, Roche, and UCB. BW received grants 
      from Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft, the German Ministry of Eduaction and 
      Research, Baden-Württembeg Ministry of Science, Research and Arts, 
      Dietmar-Hopp-Stiftung, Klaus-Tschira-Stiftung, Novartis, and Roche; and personal 
      fees from Alexion, Argenx, INSTAND, Novartis, and Roche. BY received honoraria, 
      consulting or speaker fees, and research grants from Merck Serono, Biogen, Bayer, 
      Novartis, and Sanofi. AJT and PZ declare no competing interests.
EDAT- 2025/09/21 00:30
MHDA- 2025/09/21 00:31
CRDT- 2025/09/20 18:53
PHST- 2025/02/24 00:00 [received]
PHST- 2025/06/17 00:00 [revised]
PHST- 2025/07/17 00:00 [accepted]
PHST- 2025/09/21 00:31 [medline]
PHST- 2025/09/21 00:30 [pubmed]
PHST- 2025/09/20 18:53 [entrez]
AID - S1474-4422(25)00270-4 [pii]
AID - 10.1016/S1474-4422(25)00270-4 [doi]
PST - ppublish
SO  - Lancet Neurol. 2025 Oct;24(10):850-865. doi: 10.1016/S1474-4422(25)00270-4.
