PMID- 40975102
OWN - NLM
STAT- MEDLINE
DCOM- 20250920
LR  - 20250920
IS  - 1474-4465 (Electronic)
IS  - 1474-4422 (Linking)
VI  - 24
IP  - 10
DP  - 2025 Oct
TI  - 2024 MAGNIMS-CMSC-NAIMS consensus recommendations on the use of MRI for the 
      diagnosis of multiple sclerosis.
PG  - 866-879
LID - S1474-4422(25)00304-7 [pii]
LID - 10.1016/S1474-4422(25)00304-7 [doi]
AB  - MRI plays an increasingly important role in the diagnosis of multiple sclerosis. 
      We discuss the expanded role of MRI in the 2024 McDonald diagnostic criteria for 
      multiple sclerosis, which include the optic nerve as a fifth anatomical location, 
      in addition to the periventricular, juxtacortical or cortical, infratentorial, 
      and spinal cord regions. The diagnosis of multiple sclerosis can now be confirmed 
      when the criteria of dissemination in space are fulfilled with the detection of 
      typical lesions in at least four locations without additional evidence. We 
      recommend appropriate imaging strategies and MRI acquisition protocols for all 
      aspects of multiple sclerosis diagnosis, including fat-saturated sequences for 
      detection of symptomatic optic nerve lesions. Diagnostic imaging should always 
      cover the brain and spinal cord and include susceptibility-sensitive sequences 
      for the assessment of the central vein sign and paramagnetic rim lesions, which 
      can be especially helpful in cases when conventional imaging findings are 
      insufficient to establish a diagnosis. We discuss how to handle the diagnosis of 
      radiologically isolated presentations of multiple sclerosis, which are included 
      in the 2024 criteria. We present recommendations for image interpretation and 
      avoidance of misdiagnosis, and extend the recommendations to the use of MRI in 
      the diagnosis of multiple sclerosis in older people, children, people with 
      vascular comorbidities or migraine, and people living outside Europe and North 
      America. Finally, we provide recommendations for standardisation of MRI 
      acquisition and communication of results to enable an earlier diagnosis while 
      maintaining high diagnostic specificity.
CI  - Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved, including those for text and 
      data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.
FAU - Barkhof, Frederik
AU  - Barkhof F
AD  - Department of Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, Amsterdam UMC, Vrije Universiteit, 
      Amsterdam, Netherlands; Queen Square Institute of Neurology, University College 
      London, UK; Hawkes Institute, University College London, UK; Amsterdam 
      Neuroscience, Amsterdam UMC, Amsterdam, Netherlands. Electronic address: 
      f.barkhof@amsterdamumc.nl.
FAU - Reich, Daniel S
AU  - Reich DS
AD  - Translational Neuroradiology Section, National Institute of Neurological 
      Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA.
FAU - Oh, Jiwon
AU  - Oh J
AD  - Division of Neurology, Department of Medicine, St Michael's Hospital, University 
      of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
FAU - Rocca, Maria A
AU  - Rocca MA
AD  - Neurology Unit, IRCCS San Raffaele Scientific Institute, Milan, Italy; 
      Vita-Salute San Raffaele University, Milan, Italy.
FAU - Li, David K B
AU  - Li DKB
AD  - Departments of Radiology and Medicine (Neurology), University of British 
      Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada.
FAU - Sati, Pascal
AU  - Sati P
AD  - Department of Neurology, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
FAU - Azevedo, Christina J
AU  - Azevedo CJ
AD  - Department of Neurology, Keck School of Medicine, University of Southern 
      California, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
FAU - Bagnato, Francesca
AU  - Bagnato F
AD  - Neurology Department, Nashville Veteran Affairs Medical Center, Nashville, TN, 
      USA; Neuroimaging Unit, Neuroimmunology Division, Neurology Department, 
      Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, TN, USA.
FAU - Calabresi, Peter A
AU  - Calabresi PA
AD  - Department of Neurology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, 
      MD, USA.
FAU - Ciccarelli, Olga
AU  - Ciccarelli O
AD  - Queen Square Institute of Neurology, University College London, UK; Queen Square 
      MS Centre, Department of Neuroinflammation, Queen Square Institute of Neurology, 
      London, UK; National Institute for Health and Care Research University College 
      London Hospitals Biomedical Research Centre, London, UK.
FAU - Dwyer, Michael G
AU  - Dwyer MG
AD  - Department of Neurology, Jacobs School of Medicine, State University of New York 
      at Buffalo, Buffalo, NY, USA.
FAU - DeLuca, Gabriele C
AU  - DeLuca GC
AD  - Nuffield Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
FAU - De Stefano, Nicola
AU  - De Stefano N
AD  - Department of Medicine, Surgery and Neuroscience, University of Siena, Siena, 
      Italy.
FAU - Enzinger, Christian
AU  - Enzinger C
AD  - Department of Neurology, Medical University of Graz, Graz, Austria.
FAU - Filippi, Massimo
AU  - Filippi M
AD  - Neurology Unit, IRCCS San Raffaele Scientific Institute, Milan, Italy; 
      Vita-Salute San Raffaele University, Milan, Italy.
FAU - Granziera, Cristina
AU  - Granziera C
AD  - Department of Neurology, University Hospital and University of Basel, Basel, 
      Switzerland; Research Center for Clinical Neuroimmunology and Neuroscience Basel, 
      University Hospital, University of Basel, Basel, Switzerland; Translational 
      Imaging in Neurology Basel, Department of Biomedical Engineering, Faculty of 
      Medicine, University Hospital Basel and University of Basel, Basel, Switzerland.
FAU - Halper, June
AU  - Halper J
AD  - Consortium of MS Centers, Hackensack, NJ, USA.
FAU - Henry, Roland G
AU  - Henry RG
AD  - Departments of Neurology, Radiology and Biomedical Imaging, Weill Institute for 
      Neurosciences, University of California, San Francisco, CA, USA.
FAU - Gasperini, Claudio
AU  - Gasperini C
AD  - Department of Neuroscience, S Camillo Forlanini Hospital, Rome, Italy.
FAU - Gauthier, Susan
AU  - Gauthier S
AD  - Department of Neurology, Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, NY, USA.
FAU - Kappos, Ludwig
AU  - Kappos L
AD  - Department of Neurology, University Hospital and University of Basel, Basel, 
      Switzerland; Research Center for Clinical Neuroimmunology and Neuroscience Basel, 
      University Hospital, University of Basel, Basel, Switzerland; Translational 
      Imaging in Neurology Basel, Department of Biomedical Engineering, Faculty of 
      Medicine, University Hospital Basel and University of Basel, Basel, Switzerland.
FAU - Laule, Cornelia
AU  - Laule C
AD  - Departments of Radiology, Pathology & Laboratory Medicine, Physics & Astronomy, 
      International Collaboration on Repair Discoveries, University of British 
      Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada.
FAU - Newsome, Scott D
AU  - Newsome SD
AD  - Department of Neurology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, 
      MD, USA.
FAU - Montalban, Xavier
AU  - Montalban X
AD  - Multiple Sclerosis Centre of Catalonia and Department of Neurology Hospital 
      Universitari Vall d'Hebron, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain; 
      Department of Neurology, Universitat de Vic/Central de Catalunya, Barcelona, 
      Spain.
FAU - Morrow, Sarah A
AU  - Morrow SA
AD  - Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Hotchkiss Brain 
      Institute, Calgary, AB, Canada.
FAU - Schoonheim, Menno M
AU  - Schoonheim MM
AD  - MS Center Amsterdam, Anatomy and Neurosciences, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 
      Amsterdam, Netherlands; Amsterdam Neuroscience, Amsterdam UMC, Amsterdam, 
      Netherlands.
FAU - Sicotte, Nancy
AU  - Sicotte N
AD  - Department of Neurology, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
FAU - Toosy, Ahmed
AU  - Toosy A
AD  - Queen Square MS Centre, Department of Neuroinflammation, Queen Square Institute 
      of Neurology, London, UK; Institute of Neurology, Faculty of Brain Sciences, 
      University College London, London, UK.
FAU - Wilken, Jeffrey
AU  - Wilken J
AD  - Department of Neurology, Georgetown University, Washington, DC, USA; Washington 
      Neuropsychology Research Group, USA.
FAU - Yousry, Tarek
AU  - Yousry T
AD  - Lysholm Department of Neuroradiology, University College London Hospitals, 
      National Hospital for Neurology and Neurosurgery, Neuroradiological Academic 
      Unit, University College London, Institute of Neurology, London, UK.
FAU - Sastre-Garriga, Jaume
AU  - Sastre-Garriga J
AD  - Multiple Sclerosis Centre of Catalonia and Department of Neurology Hospital 
      Universitari Vall d'Hebron, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain; 
      Department of Neurology, Universitat de Vic/Central de Catalunya, Barcelona, 
      Spain.
FAU - Traboulsee, Anthony
AU  - Traboulsee A
AD  - Department of Medicine (Neurology), University of British Columbia, Vancouver, 
      BC, Canada.
FAU - Ontaneda, Daniel
AU  - Ontaneda D
AD  - Mellen Center for Multiple Sclerosis, Department of Neurology, Cleveland Clinic 
      Lerner College of Medicine of Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, OH, 
      USA.
FAU - Rovira, Àlex
AU  - Rovira À
AD  - Section of Neuroradiology, Department of Radiology, Hospital Universitari Vall 
      d'Hebron, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
CN  - Magnetic Resonance Imaging Network in Multiple Sclerosis
CN  - Consortium of Multiple Sclerosis Centers
CN  - North American Imaging in Multiple Sclerosis Cooperative MRI guidelines working 
      group
LA  - eng
PT  - Journal Article
PT  - Review
PL  - England
TA  - Lancet Neurol
JT  - The Lancet. Neurology
JID - 101139309
SB  - IM
MH  - Humans
MH  - *Multiple Sclerosis/diagnostic imaging
MH  - *Magnetic Resonance Imaging/standards/methods
MH  - Consensus
MH  - Brain/diagnostic imaging
COIS- Declaration of interests FBar is supported by European Commission, Medical 
      Research Council, NIHR Biomedical Research Centre at University College London 
      Hospitals, GE Healthcare, Roche, and Alzheimer's Disease Data Initiative (paid to 
      institution); is a consultant for Combinostics, IXICO, and Roche; and 
      participates in Steering Committees or Data safety Monitoring Boards for EISAI, 
      Biogen, Prothena, and Merck. DSR is supported by the Intramural Research Program 
      of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, US National 
      Institutes of Health (NIH); and he has received research support from Abata 
      Therapeutics and Sanofi. JO holds the Waugh Family Chair in MS Research at St 
      Michael's Hospital, University of Toronto; has received grant funding from MS 
      Canada, Brain Canada, the National MS Society, Biogen-Idec, Roche, and 
      EMD-Serono; and has received personal compensation for consulting or speaking 
      from Biogen-Idec, BMS, EMD-Serono, Eli Lilly, Horizon Therapeutics, Novartis, 
      Roche, and Sanofi-Genzyme. MAR received consulting fees from Biogen, Bristol 
      Myers Squibb, Eli Lilly, Janssen, and Roche; received speaker honoraria from 
      Astra-Zeneca, Biogen, Bristol Myers Squibb, Bromatech, Celgene, Genzyme, Horizon 
      Therapeutics Italy, Merck Serono SpA, Novartis, Roche, Sanofi, and Teva; and 
      declares research support from the MS Society of Canada, the Italian Ministry of 
      Health, the Italian Ministry of University and Research, and Fondazione Italiana 
      Sclerosi Multipla. DKBL is Emeritus Director of the UBC MS/MRI Research Group, 
      which has received grant support for investigator-initiated studies from Genzyme 
      and Roche; and has given lectures, supported by non-restricted education grants 
      from Academy of Health Care Learning, Biogen, Novartis, Consortium of MS Centers, 
      and Sanofi-Genzyme. PS receives research support from the National Institutes of 
      Health, the National Multiple Sclerosis Society, the Department of Defense, and 
      the Erwin Rautenberg Foundation. CJA receives grant support from the National MS 
      Society, the National Institutes of Health, and the Keck School of Medicine; has 
      received consulting honoraria for participation in advisory boards, data safety 
      monitoring committee from MRI Adjudication Committee for Horizon Therapeutics, TG 
      Therapeutics, EMD Serono, Genentech, and Zenas Biopharma; and for participation 
      in educational events for Sanofi Genzyme, MJH Life Sciences, Efficient, and Spire 
      Learning. FBag is supported by the National Institute of Health, The VA 
      Healthcare Administration, the National MS Society and the Voros Innovation and 
      Impact Funds; is a consultant for Sanofi; and participates in Steering Committee 
      and Advisory Boards for Merck-Serono and Sanofi. PAC has received grant funding 
      from the NIH, National Multiple Sclerosis Society, US Department of Defense, 
      Genentech, and the Myelin Repair Foundation; and has received consulting 
      honoraria for serving on scientific advisory boards for Novartis, Idorsia, and 
      Elli Lilly. OC has received grant funding from National Institute for Health and 
      Care Research, UK MS Society, Medical Research Council, and Rosetrees Trust; and 
      has received personal compensation for consulting or speaking from Novartis, 
      Roche, and Biogen. MGD received grant support from Novartis, Bristol Myers 
      Squibb, Mapi Pharma, and Merck Serono; and declares consulting fees from Bristol 
      Myers Squibb and Mapi Pharma. GCD has received research funding from the Oxford 
      Biomedical Research Centre, Medical Research Council (UK), National Health and 
      Medical Research Council, UK MS Society, Department of Defense, 
      Oxford-Quinnipiac-Trinity Health Of New England Partnership, Rosetrees Trust, and 
      the Multiple sclerosis Research, Treatment, and Education; and has received 
      honoraria for consulting or speaking for Novartis, Merck, the MS Academy, 
      American Academy of Neurology, and the Wellcome Trust. NDS has received honoraria 
      from Biogen, Celgene (Bristol Myers Squibb), EMD Serono, Genzyme, Immunic, 
      Novartis, Roche, and Teva for consulting services, speaking, and travel support; 
      serves on advisory boards for Biogen, Genzyme, Immunic (the healthcare business 
      of Merck), Darmstadt, Germany, Novartis, and Roche; has received research grant 
      support from the Italian MS Society; and is co-founder of Siena Imaging. CE has 
      received funding for travel and speaker honoraria from Biogen, Bayer, Celgene, 
      Merck, Novartis, Roche, Shire, Genzyme and Teva Pharmaceutical 
      Industries/Sanofi-Aventis; received research support from Merck Serono, Biogen, 
      and Teva Pharmaceutical Industries/Aanofi-Aventis; and has served on scientific 
      advisory boards for Bayer, Biogen, Celgene, Merck, Novartis, Roche, and Teva 
      Pharmaceutical Industries/Sanofi-Aventis. MF received compensation for consulting 
      services from Alexion, Almirall, Biogen, Merck, Novartis, Roche, and Sanofi; 
      declares speaking activities from Bayer, Biogen, Celgene, Chiesi Italia SpA, Eli 
      Lilly, Genzyme, Janssen, Merck-Serono, Neopharmed Gentili, Novartis, Novo 
      Nordisk, Roche, Sanofi, Takeda, and TEVA; participation in Advisory Boards for 
      Alexion, Biogen, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Merck, Novartis, Roche, Sanofi, 
      Sanofi-Aventis, Sanofi-Genzyme, and Takeda; scientific direction of educational 
      events for Biogen, Merck, Roche, Celgene, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Lilly, Novartis, 
      and Sanofi-Genzyme; and receives research support from Biogen, Merck-Serono, 
      Novartis, Roche, the Italian Ministry of Health, the Italian Ministry of 
      University and Research, and Fondazione Italiana Sclerosi Multipla. CGo is 
      supported by the Swiss National Science Foundationgrant (PP00P3_176984), the 
      Stiftung zur Förderung der gastroenterologischen und allgemeinen klinischen 
      Forschung, University Hospital Basel, and the Research Center for Clinical 
      neuroimmunology and Neuroscience; the employers of Cristina Granziera have 
      received the fees (used exclusively for research support) from Siemens, GeNeuro, 
      Genzyme-Sanofi, Biogen, Novartis, and Hoffmann La Roche; the employers of 
      Cristina Granziera also have received advisory board and consultancy fees from 
      Actelion, Genzyme-Sanofi, Novartis, GeNeuro, Merck, Biogen, and Hoffmann La 
      Roche, as well as speaker fees from Genzyme-Sanofi, Novartis, GeNeuro, Merck, 
      Biogen, and Hoffmann La Roche. RGH has received consulting fees from Roche, 
      Novartis, QIA Consulting, Sanofi, and Boston Pharma; and research funding from 
      Roche, Genentech, and Atara. CGa has received fees as a speaker or as an advisory 
      board member from Almirall, Biogen, Merck, Roche, Novartis, Sandoz, AstraZeneca, 
      Viatris, Sanofi, Jansen, and Bristol Myers Squibb. SG has received grant funding 
      from the National Institutes of Health, National Multiple Sclerosis Society, and 
      Genentech; and has received consulting fees from Contineum Therapeutics and 
      Kiniksa Pharmaceuticals. LK received research support to the institution 
      (University Hospital Basel, Basel, Switzerland) including steering committee, 
      advisory board, and consultancy fees from Actelion (Janssen), Bayer, Biogen, 
      Bristol Myers Squibb, GSK, Janssen, Japan Tobacco, Merck, Novartis, Roche, 
      Sanofi, Santhera, and Shionogi, and TG Therapeutics; speaker fees from Bayer, 
      Biogen, Merck, Novartis, Roche, and Sanofi; support of educational activities 
      from Allergan, Bayer, Biogen, CSL Behring, Desitin, Merck, Novartis, Pfizer, 
      Roche, Sanofi, Shire, and Teva; license fees for Neurostatus platform access; and 
      grants from Bayer, Biogen, EU, InnoSwiss, Merck, Novartis, Roche, Swiss Multiple 
      Sclerosis Society, and Swiss National Research Foundation. CL reports funding 
      support from the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada, the 
      Craig H. Neilsen Foundation, the International Collaboration on Repair 
      Discoveries, and the University of British Columbia. SDN reports grants or 
      contracts from Biogen, Roche, Genentech, Lunbeck, Sanofi, National Multiple 
      Sclerosis Society, Department of Defense, and Patient Centered Outcomes Research 
      Institute; personal compensation for consulting from Biogen, Roche, Genentech, 
      Bristol Myers Squibb, Novartis, and TG Therapeutics; is the study lead PI for a 
      Roche clinical trial program; and reports research support from the Stiff Person 
      Syndrome Research Foundation. XM's institution has received compensation for 
      lecture honoraria and travel expenses, participation in scientific meetings, 
      clinical trial steering committee membership, or clinical advisory board 
      participation in recent years from Abbvie, Actelion, Alexion, Bial PD, Biogen, 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb/Celgene, EMD Serono, Genzyme, Hoffmann-La Roche, Immunic 
      Therapeutics, Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Medday, Merck, Mylan, Nervgen, 
      Neuraxpharm, Novartis, Peervoice, Samsung-Biosys, Sandoz, Sanofi-Genzyme, Teva 
      Pharmaceutical, TG Therapeutics, Excemed, Medscape, European Committee for 
      Treatment and Research in Multiple Sclerosis, Multiple Sclerosis International 
      Federation, and National Multiple Sclerosis Society or any of their affiliates. 
      In the last 3 years, SAM has served as an advisory board member or received 
      consulting fees from Biogen Idec, BMS/Celgene, EMD Serono, Novartis, Roche, and 
      Sanofi Genzyme; participated in a speaker's bureau for Biogen Idec, BMS/Celgene, 
      EMD Serono, Novartis, Roche, and Sanofi; has received research support from 
      Biogen Idec EMD Serono, Novartis, Roche, Sanofi Genzyme, MS Canada, Canadian 
      Institute of Health Research, and National Multiple Sclerosis Society; has 
      participated as a site investigator in clinical trials sponsored by BMS/Celgene, 
      EMD Serono, Novartis, Roche, and Sanofi; and has acted as site PI for 
      multi-center trials funded by BMS/Celgene, EMD Serono, Novartis, Roche, and 
      Sanofi Genzyme. MMS serves on the editorial board of Neurology, Multiple 
      Sclerosis Journal, and Frontiers in Neurology; receives research support from the 
      Dutch MS Research Foundation, Eurostars-EUREKA, Association pur la Recherche sur 
      la Sclerose en Plaque, Amsterdam Neuroscience, MAGNIMS, and ZonMW (Vidi grant, 
      project number 09150172010056); and has served as a consultant for or received 
      research support from Atara Biotherapeutics, Biogen, Celgene/Bristol Meyers 
      Squibb, EIP, Sanofi, MedDay, and Merck. NS receives research funding from the 
      NIH, National MS Society, and Patient Centered Outcomes Research Institute. ATo 
      has been supported by recent grants from the Medical Research Council 
      (MR/S026088/1National Institute for Health and Care Research Biomedical Research 
      Centre (541/CAP/OC/818837), and RoseTrees Trust (A1332 and PGL21/10079); speaker 
      honoraria from Merck, Biomedia, Sereno Symposia International Foundation, Bayer, 
      and At the Limits; was reimbursed for meeting expenses from Merck, Biogen Idec, 
      and Novartis; and was the UK PI for two clinical trials sponsored by MEDDAY 
      pharmaceutical company (MD1003 in optic neuropathy [MS-ON - NCT02220244] and 
      progressive MS [MS-SPI2 - NCT02936037]). JW has research support from Biogen; is 
      a consultant for BMS; and has been a speaker for Biogen, EMD Serono, and Sanofi. 
      JS-G received compensation in the last 24 months for consulting services and 
      speaking honoraria from BMS, Sanofi, Merck, and Roche; is scientific director of 
      Revista de Neurología and member of the editorial committee of Multiple Sclerosis 
      Journal, for which he receives an honorarium; and he has received research 
      support from Fondo de Investigación en Salud (PI19/00950 and PI22/00750) from 
      Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Spain. ATr is the MS Canada Research Chair; has 
      received honoraria from Sanofi for membership in data monitoring committee and 
      clinical trial steering committee and from Roche for clinical trial steering 
      committee membership; and declares research funding from Roche, NIH, and MS 
      Society of Canada. DO has received research support from the National Institutes 
      of Health, National Multiple Sclerosis Society, Patient Centered Outcomes 
      Research Institute, Race to Erase MS Foundation, Genentech, Genzyme, Bristol 
      Myers Squibb, and Novartis; and declares consulting fees from Bristol Myers 
      Squibb, Genentech/Roche, Novartis, and Contineum Therapeutics. AR serves on 
      scientific advisory boards for Novartis, Sanofi, Synthetic MR, Roche, and Biogen; 
      has received speaker honoraria from Bayer, Sanofi-Genzyme, Merck-Serono, Teva 
      Pharmaceutical Industries, Novartis, Roche, Bristol-Myers and Biogen; is the CMO 
      and co-founder of TensorMedical; and receives research support from Fondo de 
      Investigación en Salud (PI19/00950 and PI22/01589) from Instituto de Salud Carlos 
      III, Spain. All other authors declare no competing interests.
EDAT- 2025/09/21 00:29
MHDA- 2025/09/21 00:30
CRDT- 2025/09/20 18:53
PHST- 2025/02/27 00:00 [received]
PHST- 2025/07/28 00:00 [revised]
PHST- 2025/08/04 00:00 [accepted]
PHST- 2025/09/21 00:30 [medline]
PHST- 2025/09/21 00:29 [pubmed]
PHST- 2025/09/20 18:53 [entrez]
AID - S1474-4422(25)00304-7 [pii]
AID - 10.1016/S1474-4422(25)00304-7 [doi]
PST - ppublish
SO  - Lancet Neurol. 2025 Oct;24(10):866-879. doi: 10.1016/S1474-4422(25)00304-7.
