PMID- 40975098
OWN - NLM
STAT- MEDLINE
DCOM- 20250920
LR  - 20250923
IS  - 1474-4465 (Electronic)
IS  - 1474-4422 (Linking)
VI  - 24
IP  - 10
DP  - 2025 Oct
TI  - Candesartan versus placebo for migraine prevention in patients with episodic 
      migraine: a randomised, triple-blind, placebo-controlled, phase 2 trial.
PG  - 817-827
LID - S1474-4422(25)00269-8 [pii]
LID - 10.1016/S1474-4422(25)00269-8 [doi]
AB  - BACKGROUND: Effective and well-tolerated preventive treatments for migraine 
      remain few, and the angiotensin receptor blocker candesartan has shown promise in 
      small studies. This study aimed to evaluate the safety, tolerability, and 
      efficacy of candesartan for the preventive treatment of episodic migraine. 
      METHODS: This randomised, triple-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group, phase 
      2 trial was done at nine hospitals across Norway and one large hospital in 
      Estonia, selected for their neurological services and research capacity. Adults 
      aged 18-64 years, experiencing between two and eight migraine attacks (with or 
      without aura) per month were randomly assigned (1:1:1) to receive oral 
      candesartan 16 mg, candesartan 8 mg, or placebo daily for 12 weeks. Acute 
      migraine medication was permitted during the trial but the use of other 
      preventive treatments were prohibited. Participants, site personnel, and the 
      trial statistician were all masked to treatment allocation. The primary endpoint 
      was the change in the mean number of migraine days per 4 weeks from baseline to 
      weeks 9-12, analysed in the intention-to-treat population (participants with at 
      least one post-baseline measurement during the masked treatment period). Safety 
      analyses included all participants who received at least one dose of the trial 
      drug. This trial is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT04574713; Oct 5, 2020) 
      and is completed. FINDINGS: Between April 9, 2021, and April 12, 2024, 1340 
      individuals were assessed for eligibility, 806 were deemed ineligible, and 534 
      were enrolled in the trial. Of these, 77 were excluded, and 457 participants were 
      randomly assigned to candesartan 16 mg (n=156), candesartan 8 mg (n=150), or 
      placebo (n=151). The mean age of the trial population was 38·7 years (SD 10·0); 
      391 (86%) participants were female and 66 (14%) were male. The mean number of 
      migraine days was 5·7 (SD 2·5) at baseline. By weeks 9-12, the reduction in 
      migraine days was 2·04 days (95% CI 1·65-2·41 p<0·0001) in the candesartan 16 mg 
      group compared with 0·82 days (0·38-1·23; p=0·0003) in the placebo group 
      ((difference between groups -1·22 [95% CI -1·75 to -0·70]; p<0·0001). The most 
      common adverse event with candesartan 16 mg was dizziness, reported in 46 (30%) 
      of 156 participants, compared with 19 (13%) of 151 in the placebo group. Serious 
      adverse events were reported in four (3%) participants in the candesartan 16 mg 
      group and one (1%) participant in the placebo group. Adverse events leading to 
      discontinuation occurred in four (3%) participants in both the candesartan 16 mg 
      and placebo groups. INTERPRETATION: Daily administration of candesartan 16 mg is 
      effective and well tolerated as a preventive treatment for episodic migraine. 
      These findings support its role as a clinically meaningful and evidence-based 
      option for migraine prevention. However, further clinical trials and real-world 
      data from registry studies are necessary to assess its long-term efficacy. 
      FUNDING: Norwegian Research Council.
CI  - Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved, including those for text and 
      data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.
FAU - Øie, Lise Rystad
AU  - Øie LR
AD  - Department of Neurology, St Olavs University Hospital, Trondheim, Norway; 
      Norwegian Centre for Headache Research, Norwegian University of Science and 
      Technology, Trondheim, Norway; Department of Neuromedicine and Movement Science, 
      Norwegian University of Science and Technology, Trondheim, Norway. Electronic 
      address: lise.r.oie@ntnu.no.
FAU - Wergeland, Tore
AU  - Wergeland T
AD  - Department of Neurology, St Olavs University Hospital, Trondheim, Norway; 
      Norwegian Centre for Headache Research, Norwegian University of Science and 
      Technology, Trondheim, Norway; Department of Neuromedicine and Movement Science, 
      Norwegian University of Science and Technology, Trondheim, Norway.
FAU - Salvesen, Øyvind
AU  - Salvesen Ø
AD  - Department of Public Health and Nursing, Norwegian University of Science and 
      Technology, Trondheim, Norway.
FAU - Gravdahl, G Ril Bruvik
AU  - Gravdahl GRB
AD  - Department of Neurology, St Olavs University Hospital, Trondheim, Norway; 
      Norwegian Centre for Headache Research, Norwegian University of Science and 
      Technology, Trondheim, Norway; Department of Neuromedicine and Movement Science, 
      Norwegian University of Science and Technology, Trondheim, Norway.
FAU - Aschehoug, Irina
AU  - Aschehoug I
AD  - Department of Neurology, St Olavs University Hospital, Trondheim, Norway; 
      Department of Neuromedicine and Movement Science, Norwegian University of Science 
      and Technology, Trondheim, Norway.
FAU - Gulati, Sasha
AU  - Gulati S
AD  - Department of Neurosurgery, St Olavs University Hospital, Trondheim, Norway; 
      Department of Neuromedicine and Movement Science, Norwegian University of Science 
      and Technology, Trondheim, Norway.
FAU - Bj Rk, Marte-Helene
AU  - Bj Rk MH
AD  - Norwegian Centre for Headache Research, Norwegian University of Science and 
      Technology, Trondheim, Norway; Department of Clinical Medicine, University of 
      Bergen, Bergen, Norway; Department of Neurology, Haukeland University hospital, 
      Bergen, Norway.
FAU - Lundqvist, Christofer
AU  - Lundqvist C
AD  - Health Services Research Unit, University of Oslo Campus, Akershus University 
      Hospital, L⊘renskog, Norway; Department of Neurology, Akershus University 
      Hospital, L⊘renskog, Norway.
FAU - Alstadhaug, Karl Bj Rnar
AU  - Alstadhaug KBR
AD  - Department of Neurology, Nordland Hospital, Bod⊘, Norway.
FAU - Winsvold, Bendik Slagsvold
AU  - Winsvold BS
AD  - Norwegian Centre for Headache Research, Norwegian University of Science and 
      Technology, Trondheim, Norway; Department of Neuromedicine and Movement Science, 
      Norwegian University of Science and Technology, Trondheim, Norway; Department of 
      Neurology, Oslo University Hospital, Oslo, Norway; Department of Research and 
      Innovation, Division of Clinical Neuroscience, Oslo University Hospital, Oslo, 
      Norway.
FAU - Aamodt, Anne Hege
AU  - Aamodt AH
AD  - Norwegian Centre for Headache Research, Norwegian University of Science and 
      Technology, Trondheim, Norway; Department of Neuromedicine and Movement Science, 
      Norwegian University of Science and Technology, Trondheim, Norway; Department of 
      Neurology, Oslo University Hospital, Oslo, Norway.
FAU - Larsen, Iben Cornelia
AU  - Larsen IC
AD  - Department of Neurology, University Hospital of North-Norway, Troms⊘, Norway.
FAU - B E, Magne Geir
AU  - B E MG
AD  - Department of Neurology, Hospital of Southern Norway, Kristiansand, Norway.
FAU - Braschinsky, Mark
AU  - Braschinsky M
AD  - Institute of Clinical Medicine, University of Tartu, Tartu, Estonia; Neurology 
      Clinic, Tartu University Hospital, Tartu, Estonia.
FAU - Müller, Bernd
AU  - Müller B
AD  - Department of Neurology, Molde Hospital, Molde, Norway.
FAU - Vetvik, Kjersti Gr Tta
AU  - Vetvik KGT
AD  - Norwegian Centre for Headache Research, Norwegian University of Science and 
      Technology, Trondheim, Norway; Department of Neurology, Akershus University 
      Hospital, L⊘renskog, Norway.
FAU - Müller, Kai Ivar
AU  - Müller KI
AD  - Department of Neurology, Hospital of Southern Norway, Kristiansand, Norway.
FAU - Aaseth, Kjersti
AU  - Aaseth K
AD  - Department of Neurology, Akershus University Hospital, L⊘renskog, Norway.
FAU - Khanevski, Andrej Netland
AU  - Khanevski AN
AD  - Norwegian Centre for Headache Research, Norwegian University of Science and 
      Technology, Trondheim, Norway; Department of Neurology, Haukeland University 
      hospital, Bergen, Norway.
FAU - Øvrevik, Ane Bakke
AU  - Øvrevik AB
AD  - Department of Neurology, Haukeland University hospital, Bergen, Norway.
FAU - Vegrim, Håkon Magne
AU  - Vegrim HM
AD  - Department of Clinical Medicine, University of Bergen, Bergen, Norway; Department 
      of Neurology, Haukeland University hospital, Bergen, Norway.
FAU - Lindroos, Jenny
AU  - Lindroos J
AD  - Department of Clinical Medicine, University of Bergen, Bergen, Norway; Department 
      of Neurology, Haukeland University hospital, Bergen, Norway.
FAU - Eid, Karine
AU  - Eid K
AD  - Norwegian Centre for Headache Research, Norwegian University of Science and 
      Technology, Trondheim, Norway; Department of Clinical Medicine, University of 
      Bergen, Bergen, Norway; Department of Neurology, Haukeland University hospital, 
      Bergen, Norway.
FAU - Engstrand, Helene
AU  - Engstrand H
AD  - Norwegian Centre for Headache Research, Norwegian University of Science and 
      Technology, Trondheim, Norway; Department of Neurology, Oslo University Hospital, 
      Oslo, Norway; Faculty of Medicine, Institute of Clinical Medicine, University of 
      Oslo, Oslo, Norway.
FAU - Bezgal, Burcu
AU  - Bezgal B
AD  - Department of Neurology, Oslo University Hospital, Oslo, Norway.
FAU - Larsen, Martha Brakestad
AU  - Larsen MB
AD  - Department of Neurology, Molde Hospital, Molde, Norway.
FAU - Østhus, Joakim H Gsteggen
AU  - Østhus JHG
AD  - Department of Neurology, St Olavs University Hospital, Trondheim, Norway; 
      Norwegian Centre for Headache Research, Norwegian University of Science and 
      Technology, Trondheim, Norway; Department of Neuromedicine and Movement Science, 
      Norwegian University of Science and Technology, Trondheim, Norway.
FAU - Stovner, Lars Jacob
AU  - Stovner LJ
AD  - Norwegian Centre for Headache Research, Norwegian University of Science and 
      Technology, Trondheim, Norway; Department of Neuromedicine and Movement Science, 
      Norwegian University of Science and Technology, Trondheim, Norway.
FAU - Tronvik, Erling
AU  - Tronvik E
AD  - Department of Neurology, St Olavs University Hospital, Trondheim, Norway; 
      Norwegian Centre for Headache Research, Norwegian University of Science and 
      Technology, Trondheim, Norway; Department of Neuromedicine and Movement Science, 
      Norwegian University of Science and Technology, Trondheim, Norway.
LA  - eng
SI  - ClinicalTrials.gov/NCT04574713
PT  - Clinical Trial, Phase II
PT  - Journal Article
PT  - Multicenter Study
PT  - Randomized Controlled Trial
PL  - England
TA  - Lancet Neurol
JT  - The Lancet. Neurology
JID - 101139309
RN  - S8Q36MD2XX (candesartan)
RN  - 0 (Benzimidazoles)
RN  - 0 (Biphenyl Compounds)
RN  - 0 (Tetrazoles)
RN  - 0 (Angiotensin II Type 1 Receptor Blockers)
SB  - IM
MH  - Humans
MH  - Male
MH  - Female
MH  - Adult
MH  - *Migraine Disorders/prevention & control/drug therapy
MH  - *Benzimidazoles/therapeutic use/adverse effects
MH  - Middle Aged
MH  - Biphenyl Compounds
MH  - *Tetrazoles/therapeutic use/adverse effects
MH  - Young Adult
MH  - Adolescent
MH  - *Angiotensin II Type 1 Receptor Blockers/therapeutic use/adverse effects
MH  - Double-Blind Method
MH  - Treatment Outcome
COIS- Declaration of interests LRØ has received advisory board honoraria from Roche. TW 
      has received honoraria from TEVA, Roche, Lilly, Lundbeck and has stocks in two 
      MedTech companies (Vilje Bionics and Keimon Medical). GBG has received honoraria 
      for lectures and presentation from Novartis, TEVA, and Lundbeck. M-HB has 
      received advisory board honoraria from Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Angelini Pharma, 
      Lundbeck, Pfizer, and Eisai, and honoraria for lectures from Eisai, AbbVie, 
      Angelini Pharma, Novartis, Pfizer, BestPractice (funded by the pharmaceutical 
      industry), and Organon. Her institution (University of Bergen) has received fees 
      from contract research conducted for Novartis and is listed as a marketing 
      authorisation holder for valproate. CL has received honoraria for study board 
      membership from Lundbeck Pharma and for lectures and presentations from Abbvie 
      Pharma, Lundbeck, Novartis, and Roche. KBA has received speaker-fees from Biogen, 
      Lundbeck, TEVA, Novartis, and Roche, and has also received honoraria for 
      participation in advisory boards sponsored by TEVA, Biogen, Lilly, and Novartis. 
      AHA reports unrestricted research grants from Boehringer Ingelheim; honoraria for 
      lectures from BMS and Pfizer, Teva, Abbvie, Lundbeck, and Novartis; and 
      participation in advisory boards for Lundbeck and Abbvie. KGV has received 
      personal honoraria for participation in advisory boards for Lundbeck, TEVA, 
      Pfizer, Novartis, and personal honoraria for lectures for Lundbeck, TEVA, Pfizer, 
      and Novartis. HMV has received speaker honoraria from Angelini Pharma Nordics. KE 
      has received speaker honoraria from Novartis. LJS is the director of Lifting The 
      Burden, an international charitable organisation running the Global Campaign 
      Against Headache and a research committee member of the Norwegian Brain Council, 
      a charitable organisation. ET has received personal fees for lectures and 
      advisory boards from Novartis, Eli Lilly, Abbvie, TEVA, Roche, Lundbeck, Pfizer, 
      Biogen, and Organon. ET is a consultant for and holds stocks and intellectual 
      property in Man & Science and Nordic Brain Tech, and holds shares in Keimon 
      Medical. ET has received non-personal research grants from European Commission, 
      Norwegian Research Council, KlinBeForsk, and Nordic Innovation, and has conducted 
      commissioned (non-personal) research for Lundbeck. All other authors declare no 
      competing interests.
EDAT- 2025/09/21 00:29
MHDA- 2025/09/21 00:30
CRDT- 2025/09/20 18:53
PHST- 2025/04/03 00:00 [received]
PHST- 2025/07/14 00:00 [revised]
PHST- 2025/07/17 00:00 [accepted]
PHST- 2025/09/21 00:30 [medline]
PHST- 2025/09/21 00:29 [pubmed]
PHST- 2025/09/20 18:53 [entrez]
AID - S1474-4422(25)00269-8 [pii]
AID - 10.1016/S1474-4422(25)00269-8 [doi]
PST - ppublish
SO  - Lancet Neurol. 2025 Oct;24(10):817-827. doi: 10.1016/S1474-4422(25)00269-8.
